well howdy there internet people it's bo
again
so today we're going to talk about a
misconception and a fiction
we're going to do this because president
donald j trump said something
made a comment half the country was like
yes
he's going to do something about this
long-standing issue an issue that has
existed
since eisenhower and the other half the
country was not thrilled about the
comment
so we're going to clear up the
misconception because there's a
misunderstanding of the term that's
getting thrown around
but first we're going to go through what
trump said
and he said i'm not saying the military
is in love with me
the soldiers are the top people in the
pentagon probably aren't because they
want to do nothing but fight wars
so that all of those wonderful companies
that make the bombs
and make the planes and make everything
else stay happy
okay sure that kind of makes sense i
guess
in some weird fashion
when he said this people started
throwing out the term military
industrial complex and referencing
eisenhower
that's cool that's that's that's i like
that
because the military industrial complex
is a problem
however that complex is not
defense contractors these companies
these wonderful companies
making deals with generals and generals
trying to keep them happy
that's not what it is because generals
don't have any money
the military industrial complex starts
with the defense contractors those
wonderful companies
starts with them they have some profits
from previous sales
they use those profits to influence
policy generals don't make
policy congress and the executive do
so they lobby congress they lobby the
executive
they give them money campaign
contributions
to get stuff through appropriations to
get it through congress to get it signed
to get that product whatever it is
they're pushing to get it
approved so they can make more money
which will then again be used to
influence policy
this goes long long enough and the
policy
is well we got to use some of this stuff
so we can sell you more
so then the policy is well we need to
start a war
and the generals get handed that
directive
the generals are a tool of policy they
don't make it
the president does congress does
not the generals yeah you do have some
generals
some military officers who take civilian
positions afterward
that's a fact and that's probably
not always great sometimes it's good
sometimes it's just to get advice on
what the average soldier needs and and
that's good
however sometimes it's to kind of grease
the wheels within the pentagon
that's bad but
they're not taking cash these generals
they're not taking cash while they're
active duty
that is congress that is the president
that's who makes policy not the generals
this wasn't an attack on the
military-industrial complex it was a
defense of it
because it was deflecting from the real
problem because americans are more than
happy to buy this
fiction they want to believe that it's
the generals who do this
the generals and the contractors who do
this because then they don't have to
accept any responsibility
the average voter well they have no
control over the generals
but they do have control over congress
and the executive right
so the military-industrial complex it
perpetuates itself because the voters
those people cheering right now don't
actually
care enough to vote these people out
when they do it
now to be super clear on this
nobody who appoints a secretary of
defense
who was a raytheon lobbyist is
against the military-industrial complex
nobody who brags about how much money
they spend
for the military is against the
military-industrial complex
trump is the ultimate tool of the
military-industrial complex because he
convinces everybody
that we have to spend tons of money for
defense it's like
one of his main things
it's not the generals out there doing
that
it's trump
trump did not attack this form of
corruption
he helped to conceal it he helped to
bury it in this fiction
that the american people have nothing to
do with it that they have no
responsibilities
that they can't change it but you can
it's these campaign contributions
it's the undue influence that eisenhower
talked about that's the problem
not a standing army that wasn't part of
the
equation when he wrote it down when he
talked about it that wasn't the issue in
fact he
he defended that he said it was
important
to have everything ready to go but the
undue
influence was the problem that undue
influence
does not occur with the joint chiefs
it occurs with the sec death the
president
and congress that's where the problem
lies
and that's a problem the american people
can fix
you could vote these people out
if you're cheering this on right now get
rid of the offenders
the offenders aren't on the e-ring
they're on capitol hill anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
day